# Twitter-Sentiment-Analysis---Premier-League-Top-Teams
The Sentiment Analysis project was conducted in Twitter platform in February 2022. The extracted tweets are related with three famous English Premier League teams and traditional rivals: Liverpool, Manchester City and Manchester United. The selection of these teams was a combination of various parameters, such as their fame, their fanbase and their current status in the championship.

Part A
The first step was to create a Twitter developer account, in order to acquire the necessary API keys and start extracting the text data. Then, a new database was created, called twitteranalysis using the relevant MySQL library for Python, where the extracted tweets would be stored. Inside this database, the table TweetStorage was created, containing all the attributes and information of each extracted tweet, such as the name of the user account that made the tweet, the number of account’s followers, the number of his total tweets, the number of his total retweets, the actual tweet’s text, the number of the tweet’s likes, the date that the tweet was uploaded, the location of the user, the hashtags that were included and lastly, the polarity of the sweet that was determined in a later stage. 
The second step was to start extracting 1000 tweets per each team using the hashtags #LiverpoolFC, #ManCity, #ManUtd. The duplicated ones were excluded, which means any tweet posted by the same user over and over again. As a result the final number of tweets that were inserted in the database per team is 994, 998 and 994 respectively. Furthermore, regular expressions were used, in order to clean the tweets’ text from URLS, mentions, emojis, symbols and special characters.

Part B
As a final step, TextBlob librarywas used in order to classify each tweet as positive, negative or neutral, depending on its polarity. The classification type (positive, negative, neutral) for each tweet was also stored in the database. Finally, some meaningful graphs were created to depict and analyze the results of our sentiment analysis, taking also into account the fame of each user account (accounts with number of followers greater than 5000 were considered as “High Influence” users).
